NARRATOR: There are
gajillions of stories
of mischief and fun.
but to keep things simple.
let's start with just one
about a mom and two kids
and a house and a hat
that. oddly enough.
was worn by a cat.
But soon enough
we will get to all that.
In the valley that stretches
from this hill to that hill.
a city is nestled.
That city is Anville.
BOY: Hurry up!
We'll miss the movie!
Any more tutti-frutti?
I'll check.
Thanks!
It's a town that's not huge.
but quite big enough
for buyers and sellers
to sell and buy stuff.
from shoes and shirts
and elongated ladders
to sailboats
and gibble-grated
berry-juice bladders.
So our story
begins at the corner
of Main and Montroob
in the spotless
real estate office
run by Hank Humberfloob.
WOMAN:
Humberfloob Real Estate.
How can we make
your dreams come true?
(PEOPLE CHATTERING)
What do you mean.
you're leaving?
You're a babysitter.
Babysitters don't leave.
They sit.
Baby-leavers leave.
AMY: I'm sorry. I really
gotta go. Miss Walden.
Well. I need to
come home right away.
I forgot.
All right.
Thank you. Amy.
Sorry.
Attention. everyone.
It's 9:02.
Staff meeting.
(ALL MUTTERING)
First I'd like
to welcome aboard
our newest member
of the Humberfloob family.
Jim McFlinnagan!
(ALL GASPING)
Mr. Humberfloob.
I wanted to thank you...
Fired.
I beg your pardon?
But I...
Fired!
As you know. tonight is our
bimonthly Meet & Greet party.
Tonight's host
is Joan Walden.
(PEOPLE APPLAUDING)
This is where people can
meet our real estate agents
in an informal.
yet hygienic setting.
Mr. Humberfloob. I have
to get home to my kids.
Ah. yes.
Your children.
Joan. let me make
this perfectly clear.
If your house is as
messy as last time.
you're fired!
That's pretty clear.
Mr. Humberfloob.
Don't worry. I promise.
my kids'll be on
their best behavior.
Great.
(PHONE RINGING)
WOMAN:
Humberfloob Real Estate.
How can we make
your dreams come true?
Please hold.
NARRATOR: If you
leave Humberfloob's
and turn left onto Main.
three miles down
you'll find Lipplapper Lane.
a pleasant-enough street
in a pleasant-enough way
where a neighbor
greeted neighbor
with a neighborly "Hey!"
WOMAN: Hey!
MAN: Hey!
Here the hedges were hedged.
the weeds were all weeded.
and lawns were mowed daily.
twice daily if needed.
And at the end
of this street.
in a house like any other.
something
magical would happen
to a sister and her brother.
(BARKING)
(SHUSHING)
Nevins. stealth mode.
Today's to-do list.
Number one:
Make to-do list.
Number two:
Practice coloring.
Number three:
Research graduate schools.
Number four:
Be spontaneous.
Number five:
Create lasting
childhood memories.
And number six: Amend will.
What is he doing?
Number 1 0:
Make tomorrow's to-do list.
Ladies and gentlemen!
Nevins.
your attention. please.
You are about to
witness the third
most spectacular stunt
ever performed
under this roof!
Do you know
how hard it's getting
to tell people
that we're related?
Relax.
I'll put everything back.
And now.
for the indoor stair luge!
Indoor stair luge?
I'll have to add
this one to my list.
Go have no fun
somewhere else.
It is showtime!
Whoa!
WOMAN: Oh. my word!
Nevins!
Nevins. come back!
Hey. Mom. What's up?
You are so lucky you
didn't ruin this dress.
Mom. I know you're angry.
but there's something
you need to know.
This was all
Sally's fault.
Oh. really?
And how. exactly.
was it Sally's fault?
Give me a minute.
I'm working on it.
Save it. Conrad.
Why today? Why did
you have to pick today
to destroy the house?
You know
what's happening today.
I tried to tell him. Mom.
"Mom's throwing a very
important party." I said.
"All of her important
clients will be here."
But he went right ahead
and wrecked the house.
and let Nevins get away.
Now. again. I hope
you're going to ground him.
Yes. Sally. for a week.
but that's none
of your business.
A week?
Come on. Two days.
I asked you to do one
thing today. Conrad.
keep the house clean.
Do you know how
frustrating it is
that you're always doing
the exact opposite of
what I say?
QUINN: Knock. knock. knock.
Someone lose a dog?
I found him next door
in my yard. again.
You are a saint.
And here I thought you
were only dating me
for my good looks.
Lucky us.
Larry Quinn is here.
Hey-a. sport.
Call me Lawrence. Okay?
You rescued Nevins.
Thanks. Lawrence.
It was my pleasure. Sally.
Anything for
my little princess.
Oh. I don't
wanna be a princess.
In a constitutional monarchy.
parliament has
all the real power.
I see.
Okay. that's great.
Look. pal. be a sport.
Why don't you go
tidy up the living room.
Okay. dude?
I don't have to
listen to you. Larry.
Conrad.
do what Lawrence says.
Have you given
some thought about
the Wilhelm Academy?
You mean the
Colonel Wilhelm Military
Academy for Troubled Youth?
That's the one. Joan.
I'm not sure
it's right for Conrad.
Oh. Joan. Joan.
Joan. Joan. Joan.
I have so much
respect for you. Joan.
Single mother.
career woman. raising
two children on your own.
and still finding time
to be the best darned
real estate agent in town.
I know
how hard it is. Joan.
It is hard.
Oh. I know.
And I know how
hard you're trying.
This is a once-in-a-
lifetime proposition.
and you must act now.
The Colonel Wilhelm
Military Academy
for Troubled Youth
is what we call
in the sales game
a win-win scenario.
A top-flight
military school.
and it's only
eight hours away.
(PHONE RINGING)
Oh. the phone.
I heard what you said.
I'm not going to
military school. Larry.
Look. buddy.
I know I'm not your dad.
and this is probably
really strange for you.
your neighbor's
dating your mom.
But here's the thing. son.
Come here.
I don't like you. either.
But I'm gonna marry your mom.
And if it was up to me.
you'd be at
military school today.
I'm not going to
military school.
I think you're gonna love it.
It's just like summer camp.
except with brutal forced
marches
and soul-crushing discipline.
And one more thing.
it's Lawrence.
you snot-nosed son
of a wonderful woman
who I'm absolutely
crazy about!
Gosh. I love children!
Oh. Joan.
I didn't see you there.
Would you be
a doll and help me
bring up chairs
from the basement?
Nothing would give me
more pleasure. Joan.
but I do have to run.
I have a very important
sales conference downtown.
Oh. Okay.
Well. I'll see you
at the party tonight.
Sure.
Mom.
that guy's a total phony.
You can't let Larry...
It's Lawrence. Conrad.
(DOORBELL RINGING)
Kate's Catering.
I'm here to do
your party tonight.
Oh. hi. Where's Kate?
I'm Kate.
Oh. Okay.
Right this way. Kate.
Quiet!
Two weeks ago
you said you would...
(JOAN YELLING)
I "specialed" it. See?
Quiet! Nevins!
I said quiet!
Joan Walden Real Estate.
Be it ever so humble.
there's no place like Joan.
This is Mr. Humberfloob.
Oh. hi. Mr. Humberfloob.
Joan. I need you to
come back to the office.
Today?
Yes. Joan.
No problem?
No problem at all.
Great!
What's going on. Mommy?
Mommy has to go
back to the office.
Oh. I hope
Mrs. Kwan can baby-sit.
Not Mrs. Kwan!
(DOORBELL RINGING)
Hi. Mrs. Kwan.
Hi.
I'm running late.
Thanks for baby-sitting
on such short notice.
Yeah.
Okay. Mrs. Kwan.
I'll be back in
a couple of hours.
Hi.
Conrad's grounded.
so no video games.
Sally? Last chance.
If you wanna make cupcakes.
I can take you to your
friend Ginny's house.
(SNARLING)
SALLY: Ginny's not
my friend anymore.
Last time
we made cupcakes.
she wanted to
be the head chef.
I'm the head chef.
What about Denise. then?
She talked back to me.
so I ordered her not
to speak to me anymore.
And you don't like bossy?
I won't tolerate it.
Right.
If you're both staying.
remember the rules.
Conrad: No playing
ball in the house.
no fighting.
no answering the phone.
"City morgue"...
Mommy.
can't I have some rules?
No chewing tobacco.
Thanks. Mom.
You have my word.
And absolutely
no one sets foot
in the living room. or else.
Or else what?
You're gonna do
what Larry said
and send me to
military school?
Maybe if you'd just behave.
I wouldn't have to consider
military school.
I wish I could trust you.
I wish I had
a different mom.
Well. sometimes
I wish the same thing.
(DOOR CLOSING)
Good luck
with your meeting.
Children. would you like to
watch television with me?
We don't have to
tell your mother.
(TV PLAYING)
(PEOPLE CHATTERING)
(PEOPLE CLAMORING)
Taiwanese parliament.
You tell them. Kwi-Chang.
No more big government.
Rip his heart out!
Hit me!
(THUDDING)
NARRATOR: So they
slumped in their chairs.
too glum to complain.
and to make matters worse.
it started to rain.
They sat in the house
on that cold. cold. wet day
with no fun to have
and no games to play.
They could just
stare out the window
or perhaps get a nap in.
and hope that something.
anything might happen.
Quit bothering the fish.
I know.
"Quit bothering the fish."
Spit hand!
Oh. gross!
Get that away from me!
(THUDDING)
Get it away!
NARRATOR:
Then something went bump.
What was that?
(BARKING)
How that bump made them jump.
(THUDDING)
I think it came
from the closet.
(THUDDING CONTINUES)
(GRUNTS)
Conrad?
Conrad.
Come on. Conrad.
(SCREAMS)
(CHUCKLING)
You shouldn't scare people.
You should've seen
the look on your face.
It was like
you saw a monster...
A monster? Where?
(SCREAMING)
That could've gone better.
SALLY: What was that?
CONRAD: I don't know.
Looked like a humongous cat.
"Humongous"?
I prefer the term
"big-boned" or "jolly."
Now. what are we hiding from?
(LAUGHING)
(SCREAMING)
That was a giant cat.
But that's impossible.
isn't it?
It's entirely impossible.
You know. I like this
hiding place a lot better.
They'll never
find us here.
Scream and run.
(SCREAMING)
And there they go.
Who are you?
Who? Me?
Why. I'm the Cat in the Hat.
There's no doubt about that.
I'm a super-fun-diferous
feline
who's here to make
sure that you're...
Meeline? Key lime?
Turpentine?
I got nothing.
I'm not so good
with the rhyming.
Not really. no.
Look.
I'm a cat that can talk.
That should be
enough for you people!
I can talk!
I'm a cat! Yes!
Where did you come from?
How do I put this?
When a mommy cat
and a daddy cat
love each other very much.
they decide that...
Oh. no. no. no. no.
Where did you come from?
My place!
Where do you think?
No. how did you get here?
I drove!
Look. I've been
here two whole minutes.
and no one has
offered me a drink.
(EXCLAIMS)
Sorry. Mr. Cat.
Would you like some milk?
Milk? No!
Lactose intolerant.
Gums up the works.
You'll thank me later.
Hello! Surf's up!
Yeah.
(WHOOPING)
Nice spread you got here.
Homina-homina-homina-homina!
Who is this?
Oh!
That's my mom.
Awkward. yeah.
Yes. this place will do
quite nicely. actually.
Yeah.
Although those
drapes are a train wreck.
And this
is the lumpiest
couch I ever sat on.
Who is this dreadfully
uncomfortable woman?
Get off her.
That's our baby-sitter.
What the... Baby-sitter?
You don't need one
of those. do you?
Let me get this straight.
You pay this woman
to sit on babies?
That's disgusting!
I'd do it for nothing!
Now. let's see what
the old phunometer
has to say.
"Phunometer"?
Yeah.
It measures
how fun you are.
Hi.
Huh?
Oh.
Ah. control freak. Yeah.
Now. you.
Hi. How are you?
Whoa!
(CHUCKLING)
Oh.
Tap it.
Listen. kid.
you can
tap it with a hammer.
it ain't gonna change.
Just as I suspected.
You guys are
both out of whack.
You're a control freak.
and you're a rule-breaker.
That'll be $700.
Who's your insurance carrier?
So. what do we do?
Well. there are two
treatments I'd recommend.
One is a series
of painful shots
injected into your
abdomen and kneecap.
And the other
involves a musical number!
(SINGING) Me-Me-Me-Meow
How many shots?
"How many shots?"
Aren't you precious?
Maestro!
(SINGING) I know it is wet
And the sun is not sunny
But we can have
lots of good fun
that is funny
It's fun to have fun
But you got to know how
Hair ball.
I know lots of
good tricks and I'll...
FISH: Stop this right now!
Who said that?
Me!
Remember? The fish?
Came home in a Baggie.
loved me for two weeks.
and then nothing!
The fish is talking!
Well. sure. he can talk.
But is he saying anything?
No. not really. No.
Hey. Socks. can it!
This cat should not be here.
He should not be about.
He should not be here
when your mother is out.
Come on. kids.
You gonna listen to him?
He drinks where he pees.
There was this cat I knew
back home where I was bred
He never listened to
a single thing his mother said
He never used the litter box
He made a mess in the hall
That's why they
sent him to a vet
To cut off both his ba...
Ba. ba...
Boy. that wasn't
fun. fun. fun
He never learns
You can have fun. fun. fun
But less is more
They may ship
you off to school
so rein it in a little
We can't spell "fun"
without "U" in the middle
Children. this cat is
currently in violation of...
1 7 of your mother's rules.
City morgue!
Eighteen!
(PEOPLE CHEERING)
Olé!
(BULL BRAYING)
You can juggle work and play
but you have to know the way
You can keep or float a wish
like the way I do this fish
You can be a happy fella
Someone throw me that umbrella
And that rake. that cake
Life's what you make it
So have fun. fun. fun
Go insane and have
some fun. fun. fun
Just look at me
Fun. fun. fun
No more rain
Look. it's the sun. sun. sun
So can't you see
I'm as happy as a clam
I'm as fit as a fiddle
Yeah.
the dogs may bark about you
And the purebred
chaps may doubt you
FISH: Getting motion sickness!
Milk? Big mistake.
But remember this
You can't have
fun without "U"...
I can't breathe!
Whoa!
I knew that milk would
come back to haunt me.
Help! Help!
(BURPING)
"U" in the middle
Bravo. Cat.
Huh?
These children
are smart enough
not to fall for
your MTV-style flash
at the expense of
content and moral values.
That was wicked cool.
Do it again.
I'd love to.
but Shamu is right.
I really should be going.
No. don't go.
No. I should go.
I should let
you and the fish have all
your fun conjugating verbs.
cleaning your room.
doing long division.
No. you have to stay.
All right. I'll stay.
Oh. yeah!
Yeah!
But if I'm gonna stay.
there's something
I wanna show you.
Something magical
and full of wonder.
It's called a contract.
You want us to sign this?
Just a formality. really.
Yeah.
Who are they?
Magical time-traveling elves.
Yeah. Magic.
Okay. they're my lawyers.
Liability issues.
litigious society.
frivolous lawsuits.
You understand.
Basically.
this contract guarantees
you can have all
the fun you want.
and nothing bad's
ever gonna happen.
All the fun we want?
Yeah.
Nothing bad will happen?
No.
Come on. Sal.
for once in your life
try something spontaneous.
It goes against my
better instincts. but...
Fine.
Beautiful. Initial here.
And here. And here.
Not here!
Turn it over.
This is nothing.
Scratch this.
Smell that! Terrific.
Yadee-yadee-yadee.
Sign the bottom.
Great! Okay. gimme five!
Four.
Let's get this party started!
Hey. check out this room!
What now?
Mom says
we're not allowed in the
living room today. or else.
She's worried
we'll mess up the couches
by jumping
on 'em or something.
And she's right.
You can't jump on these.
Not like this.
They need some adjustment.
(CAT WHOOPING)
Let's take
a look under the hood.
Yeah.
Use my jack.
(FARTING)
Sorry.
What have we got here?
Whew.
Here we go.
It's oversized.
That's unusual.
Here it is.
(ELEPHANT TRUMPETING)
Down. Simba!
Get out of here!
Spray me. would you?
You...
(YELPING)
(ELEPHANT TRUMPETING)
Thanks for the help.
Back in a second.
Who's your couch mechanic?
You ought to
call Mr. Catwrench.
(GRUNTS)
My fur! My fur! My fur!
That ought to do it.
Whoo!
Come on. kids.
I could use
a little company.
What about Mom's party?
What about it?
We signed the contract.
(WHOOPING)
One cushion left. Sally.
She'll never do it.
She doesn't know
how to have fun.
Fun? Sally.
you're better than fun.
Fun is beneath you.
Remember what
your mother told you.
No one sets foot
in the living room...
You know what?
Let's just watch
some flashbacks.
Absolutely no one sets foot
in the living room. or else.
You're fired. fired.
fired. fired. fired. fired.
fired. fired. fired...
And that's why...
FISH: This is where
they buried my brother!
CONRAD: Yeah!
Yippee!
Oh. yeah!
This is amazing!
Like being in the circus!
Yeah. but without
those tortured animals
or drunken clowns
that have hepatitis.
See. kids.
I told you
we could have fun!
The best thing is.
no one will ever know.
Judas Priest. I can't
believe what I'm seeing!
Oh. Mr. Quinn.
I was just telling
Conrad to get off the couch.
Bad. Conrad. Bad.
Sally. baby.
angel. princess.
I'm gonna let you in
on a little secret. okay?
Nobody likes a suck-up!
Where's the cat?
I don't know.
(BURPS)
Oh!
Good bread.
What are you two looking at?
(SNEEZES)
Is there a cat in here?
(SNEEZING CONTINUES)
I'm gonna...
You're gonna... I have to
get out of here.
See. kids. I told you.
Stick with me.
it'll all work out.
Oh. no!
Little-known fact:
Cats always land
on their tushy.
I thought they always
landed on their feet.
Oh. sure.
now you tell me.
So. kiddo. what do
you want to do for fun?
I wanna make cupcakes.
Cupcakes? Oh. yeah!
To the kitchen!
MAN: Live from the kitchen.
the following is
a paid commercial
announcement for
Astounding Products.
Hi! Welcome to
I'm your host.
the guy in the sweater
who asks all
the obvious questions.
Now. here to
tell us about his
astounding product
for making cupcakes.
all the way from Cheshire.
England. please welcome...
Me! Hello!
Now... Hello!
I'm so excited!
Do you love making cupcakes.
but hate all the hard
cupcake work?
I know I do.
Well. forget everything
you know about making
cupcakes.
and say hello
to the amazing Kupkake-inator.
I'm so excited!
Cupcake-a-what?
Kupkake-inator!
ALL: Kupkake-inator!
This amazing device
can instantly make cupcakes
out of anything that
you have in the kitchen.
Wait a minute.
Did you say "anything"?
Anything.
Anything?
Yes. anything.
Anything.
Anything?
I'll get you.
and it'll look like
a bloody accident.
Anything.
Now. take off the lid.
You can put in.
I don't know.
a carton of eggs.
What?
How about a pack of hot dogs?
That's incredible!
Why not some ketchup?
Yeah. why not?
How about...
I know what you're thinking.
Even a fire extinguisher.
There we go.
Now. close the lid
and Bob's your flipping uncle.
What an astounding product!
Oh. yeah!
Open the drawer.
fill the patented
Kupkake-inator tray.
close the drawer.
then place it in
a conventional oven.
Delicious cupcakes
are just minutes away.
Did you just say
"minutes away"?
That's impossible!
ALL: That's impossible!
You're not just wrong.
you're stupid.
Now. wait just a minute.
And you're ugly.
just like your mum.
Did you just
call my mother ugly?
Shut up.
I mean it.
I will end you.
(ALL GASPING)
Cat. Your tail.
What about it?
Oh. I see.
I've chopped it off.
That's interesting.
because...
Son of a bi...
Look. I'm not saying
we're going to sue.
I'm just saying
we have a case.
We'll talk later.
Ixnay. ixnay.
Hi.
Cat.
is the oven supposed
to be making that sound?
Of course. That means
they're almost done.
Conrack.
Conrad.
That's what I said. Condor.
Cat!
Now. that's my name!
(OVEN BELL DINGS)
Yep. They're done!
Oh. man!
There's nothing
to worry about.
I'm sure they
still taste fine.
(EXCLAIMS)
They're horrible.
Who wants some?
Come on. come on.
Oh. my cod.
Cat. you need to clean
this mess up. pronto.
We have a contract.
All right. I'll try.
You don't try. You do.
Yes. ma'am.
Right away. ma'am.
I'll be right back.
(CONRAD SCREAMS)
(SNORING)
Hi. How are you?
Okay.
Look. I'm a girl.
Stop! That's...
Mom's dress!
This filthy thing?
She was gonna
wear that tonight.
and you ruined it.
Honey. it was ruined
when she bought it.
Yeah.
I told you all
this would happen.
But no one listens to a fish!
A dog goes "woof-woof"
and everybody knows
that little Timmy's
trapped under a log.
But a fish speaks
in plain English...
All right.
everyone. let's just take
a deep breath and calm down.
You know who's gonna solve it?
Me. I am.
I will personally
take care of everything.
And I know just
the guys to do it.
In this box
are two Things.
I will show them to you.
Two Things.
and I call them
Thing One and Thing Two.
These Things
will not bite you.
They want to have fun.
So without further ado.
meet Thing Two and Thing One!
BOTH: Ta-da!
Oh. yeah!
Thing One. Conrad. Sally.
Conrad. Sally. Thing One.
Thing Two. Conrad. Sally.
Conrad. Sally. Thing Two.
Thing One. Thing Two.
Thing Two. Thing One.
Conrad. Sally. Sally. Conrad.
I am the Cat.
Don't belittle me.
Ah. yes. of course.
Thing Two would
like to clarify that
just because
he wears the number two
does not
imply in any way that
he's inferior to Thing One.
And all of the above.
He says you may feel free
to call him Thing "A."
if you like.
He will also
accept Super Thing.
Thing King. Kid Dynamite.
Chocolate Thun-Da
or Ben.
(THING ONE CHATTERING)
Thing One says
he's Thing One
for a reason.
and some people
should just get used to it.
It's a Thing thing.
You wouldn't understand.
Okay. enough.
You are quickly
turning into one of
my least favorite Things.
Listen. Convex.
you probably
don't wanna do that.
Why not?
It's just a crate.
This isn't just
any old crate.
It's the Trans-dimensional
Transportolator.
It's kind of like
a doorway which leads
from this world to my world.
But it says.
"Made in the Philippines."
Yes.
but not this Philippines.
Look. now.
I'm not usually a rules guy.
but this is a biggie.
No opening the crate.
No lookee. no touchee.
Got it?
THING 2:
Mekka-dekka we should
settle our differences.
(JABBERING)
CAT: Things.
front and center!
CONRAD: Cool.
All right. Things.
I'm not paying you
to stand around
and look pretty.
Here's Mom's dress.
THING 1 : Oh! Mommy's dress!
(THINGS JABBERING)
(GASPING)
What about the couch?
Which couch?
The clean one.
or the horribly
stained one?
(WHEEZING)
(JABBERING)
Ho!
Mekka-dekka. Don't worry!
Incoming!
Cat.
they're wrecking
the whole house!
Conrad. help!
Help yourself!
Want a piece of me?
All right! Come and get it!
(JABBERING)
(EXCLAIMS)
That tickles.
(JABBERING)
Geronimo!
Mine. mine. mine!
Ride 'em. cowboy!
(WHOOPING)
If this were my house.
I'd be furious.
Hey! Klondike!
Do you have any idea
what happened to
the lock on this crate?
It's on Nevins' collar.
Nevins?
SALLY: Nevins? Nevins!
Put the dog down!
I said. put the dog down!
Why won't they listen to me?
Oh.
I don't know if this helps.
but the Things always do
the opposite of what you say.
Why do they
always do the opposite?
That's so annoying!
Remind you of anyone.
Conrad?
Zinga!
Zinga! Zinga!
Blue! 41! Set!
Hut! Hut! Hut! Hut!
Hey. Thing.
don't let go
of that dog!
Let go!
Catch him.
I mean. don't catch him!
Well. this is
just great. Conrad.
The whole house is destroyed.
the party is ruined.
and now Nevins is gone.
Sally. Kojak.
that's nothing compared
to what's gonna happen
if we don't lock this crate.
Take a look.
It's already leaking.
It won't stay shut.
Not without the lock.
Look. if we don't get
that lock off of Nevins
and put it back
on this crate.
we're gonna be staring down
the business end
of the mother of all messes.
We've gotta go
out and find Nevins.
Impossible! Sally!
There's only four
hours till the party.
The fish is right.
We should call Mom
and tell her what happened.
Look at this house!
There's no way we could
explain this to Mom.
We gotta get Nevins
back and lock the crate!
We're staying
and calling Mom.
We're going
and getting the dog.
There is a third option.
There is?
Yes. It involves...
murder.
That's your option?
No.
But you guys
both had options.
I just wanted
to have one. too.
Or did I?
Cat. you're not helping!
Come on.
Let's go get that dog.
Now. we just need
a heavy. inanimate object
to weigh down this crate.
There. That ought
to buy us some time.
Come on. kids!
Let's go. go. go!
MAN 1 ON TV:
Identical sister Mitzy...
MAN 2: That's right.
(TINKLING)
(BANGING ON DOOR)
Yeah?
What do you want now?
MAN: Repo.
You're repossessing my TV?
I'm sure I made a payment.
If it's about
that bounced check.
let me give you
a credit card.
That one's expired.
Huh? Oh. come on.
NARRATOR: With the lock
on his collar.
Nevins kept running.
unaware of his part
in the evil Quinn's cunning.
(PHONE RINGING)
Joan Walden Real Estate.
Be it ever so humble.
there's no...
Oh. hi. Joan.
The kids let
the dog out again.
You're kidding.
Don't worry.
I'll go get him.
then we'll
have a conversation
vis-á-vis military school.
I don't know.
Conrad's like you. Lawrence.
He's very sensitive.
But I suppose
it's something
I should consider.
I'll get the dog.
I'll be right over.
(FARTS)
(GRUNTS)
(BARKING)
Okay. there's Nevins.
Stay out of sight.
I thought
the moment needed something.
Oh. what will become of us?
Your mother
will lose her job.
and we'll have to
live on the street.
I can't!
Don't make me go...
I don't know this world!
It's dry! It's like...
I can't... It's too...
CONRAD: Fish!
It's too much!
Would you like to go
back in the toilet?
On second thought.
it's such a beautiful day.
Why spend it indoors?
Thank you.
Okay. kids.
Get out of my way.
This fence is no match
for my cat-like grace
and reflexes.
Here we go.
Okay. Watch me fly. kids.
(CRASHING)
(CONRAD AND SALLY GRUNTING)
(SCREAMS)
I don't think
the little girl's even trying.
What about your
cat-like reflexes?
What about
showing a little effort.
shrimp boat? Now. push!
(EXCLAIMS)
All right. Nevins.
Time to die.
Cat. you scared him away.
Dirty hoe.
I'm sorry. baby.
I love you.
CONRAD: Come on. Cat!
CONRAD: There he is!
Happy birthday. Denise.
Denise?
Everyone I know is there.
There's Ginny and Alan.
How come Denise
didn't invite me
to her birthday?
Don't worry.
Let's just get
Nevins and go.
Okay. kids.
Everyone outside!
(KIDS SHOUTING)
Cat. get down!
They're gonna see you!
Hide!
(CHILDREN SHOUTING)
ALL: Piñata! Piñata! Piñata!
Piñata! Piñata!
Everybody. join in.
GIRL: It's breaking!
Step out of my way.
This cannot end well.
ALL: Piñata! Piñata!
(SCREAMING)
I'm easy
I'm easy like Sunday morning
(SCREAMING)
Oh-ho-ho! Whoo!
I got an idea. Candy!
ALL: Candy!
No!
Get back!
SALLY: Cat!
CAT: I'll get you!
(PHONE RINGING)
(THUDDING)
I'd love to buy some.
Hello. Mrs. Kwan.
It's Joan Walden.
I just called to
check on the kids.
Are they okay?
Those aren't children.
They're little angels.
That's sweet.
Well. all right. Mrs. Kwan.
I'll be home as soon as I can.
Bye-bye.
Bye.
(THINGS JABBERING)
All right. soldier.
Our bogey is in range.
Commence search and destroy.
What?
Search and rescue.
I meant search and rescue.
Come on.
I can't believe
I wasn't invited
to that party.
Hey! You're a lone wolf.
Live alone. die alone.
Yeah.
Can we please get the dog?
Boo!
CONRAD: Oh. no! Oh. man!
Hello. Nevins.
Good-bye. Conrad.
Not so tough now.
are you?
We're dead.
We're never gonna
get that crate shut.
And I'm getting
shipped off to
Colonel Von Kronk's
School for Wayward Boys!
Why don't we take my car?
You have a car?
Yeah. sure.
Wow. That is so cool.
That's just the dust cover.
Here she is.
the Super Luxurious
Omnidirectional
Whatchamajigger.
Or S. L.O.W. for short.
S. L.O.W.?
Yeah. S. L.O.W.
It's better than
the last name we had.
Super Hydraulic
Instantaneous Transporter.
Oh. you mean...
No! Quick. to the SLOW.
Buckle up. kids.
We're on a mission
to get that dog.
and we will not rest
until we find and destroy it.
Rescue it!
Rescue it! Of course.
I meant rescue it.
Whatever.
Remember. kids. there's
nothing faster than SLOW.
That's backwards.
It makes no sense.
Look at you.
Okay. here we go.
G. P.S. . check.
DVD. CD. check.
Someone from
Czechoslovakia is a Czech.
Siren.
What are you...
What... Siren?
Let's go!
(FISH WAILING)
CAT: Hi. there!
How are you?
(CAT WHOOPING)
(CAR BACKFIRING)
(ALL SCREAMING)
(SINGING)
I'm sending Conrad away
(BARKING)
Oh! Oh!
Oh!
QUINN: I can't believe
you whizzed on my taco!
Wait till Joan
gets a load of you!
(QUINN LAUGHING)
There they are!
FISH: Red light.
red light. red light!
Red light!
Someone else should drive.
All right. You win.
Concrete. you drive.
Are you serious?
I don't know.
A little voice
inside of me is saying.
"This is a bad idea."
but I can barely
hear that little voice
because an even
louder little voice
is screaming.
"Let the 1 2-year-old drive!"
Now. punch it!
This is awesome!
I want to drive.
I think that's a great idea.
Wait! Two people
can't drive
at the same time.
You're right.
We should all drive.
(ALL SCREAMING)
Cat! Where are the brakes?
I'll get them.
I think
there's something
wrong with your brakes.
When's the last time
you had them checked?
Bad brake!
FISH: One-way street.
one-way street.
one-way street!
(ALL SCREAMING)
(TRUCK HORN BLARING)
Hey.
Rhode Island license plate.
You never see those.
Om. Om.
Air bag. Standard.
I think I wet my jar.
Can we do that again?
Hey. there he is!
Oh. no!
He's going
into Mom's office!
Come on. Cat!
Go. Conrad!
You know. Nevins.
when Joan finds out
you've escaped again.
Conrad will be moving out.
and I'll be moving in.
CONRAD: We've gotta get
Nevins and that lock back.
What are we gonna do?
Don't worry.
I have three plans.
Plan "A"...
(CAT READING)
Done that. Plan "B"...
That could work.
What about that one?
Plan "C"...
(CAT READING)
I don't know.
I still like Plan "B."
BOTH: Cat!
Okay. okay. Plan "C."
Look at you.
Excuse me. sir.
I'd like you to
sign my petition. Yeah.
Get out of my way.
you hippie freak.
Are you aware
of the senseless.
wholesale slaughter
of the flatulating.
acid-spitting Zumzizeroo?
What will it take to
get you out of my face?
Just sign my petition
with this
large. oversized pen
that requires two hands.
QUINN: I see.
Will you hold my dog?
Yes!
Okay.
I have a problem
with the word "dog."
I don't use
the "D" word per se
'cause I think
it's really. really wrong.
Yeah. But I will happily
hold your Canine-American.
I'm more comfortable
with that really. yeah.
(SINGING) How much is that
Canine-American
in the window
Cat! Come on!
Hey. what the...
Go. go. go!
Come back here!
I'm on to you kids!
Nothing to see here.
Keep moving! Go!
Come on! Let's go.
Ah. get in. get in!
Come on. let's go.
Get in! Hi. hi.
Get in! Get in!
(MUSIC PLAYING)
CAT: Look out below!
Oh! Sorry. Over there.
Hey! Hey. hey! Hey. hey!
QUINN: I got you!
Here he comes! Cat!
Cat!
Where's my hat?
Oh! Go! Go. go!
Go! Let's go!
My tail. my tail.
Come on. Cat!
I'm walking here!
(EXCLAIMS)
Joan. Joan!
I think we lost him.
Not the pocket.
We got the lock back.
Now let's get home.
Relax. kid.
I'm all over it.
Hey.
What's wrong?
This.
This is not my hat.
I must have picked up
the wrong hat back there.
So?
So...
Without my hat.
I'm just your garden-variety.
six-foot-tall. talking cat.
Joan. your children
are running around town
like complete maniacs.
Yes. they are.
With some weird.
hairy man in a big hat.
You're gonna believe
everything I'm telling you
once we get to your house.
okay? Come on.
We're doomed!
We're dead.
This is all my fault.
I'm such an idiot.
Why do I always have
to do the opposite of
what I'm supposed to?
Wait a second.
That's it! The opposite!
Hey. Things!
Don't help us!
Do not show up
and help us
get home right now!
We're goin'
on a road trip!
Larry's car?
How'd you get so smart?
NARRATOR: So the race was on
to get back home first.
CONRAD: Hang on! We gotta
beat Mom and Quinn home!
But back at their home.
things were
just getting worse.
There's Mom and Larry!
Step on it. Joan.
Go. go. go.
Oh. Things.
do not do anything
to slow down my mom.
THING 1 : Slow down Mom!
THING 2: Slow down Mom!
(SIREN WAILING)
QUINN: Look. Joan. they
don't beat them every day.
Oh. great.
(THING CLEARING THROAT)
I'm sorry. Officer.
Was I speeding?
Mekka-dekka license.
appa registration.
Mekka-dekka.
you're one hot mama.
Hey. that's my car. Joan.
we better go right away.
Please let me handle this.
Sorry. I guess I was
in a hurry to get home.
I'm not gonna let
them get away with this.
Meet me at the house!
Not so fast.
you little maggots!
Oh. you are so busted.
Now get inside.
You don't
want to go in there.
It's going to be a total...
What?
Sally. what happened?
What about
the mother of all messes?
I don't know.
(SNEEZING)
Why am I sneezing?
That'd be me. Boo!
You're a giant...
Cat!
Judas Priest!
Mamma mia.
What happened
to our house?
It's the mother
of all messes.
Yup!
Pure. unadulterated fun
without any good sense
or judgment.
See. Corn Dog.
this is why I warned you
not to open the crate.
Although.
on the plus side.
I think people
will be talking about
tonight's party for
the rest of their lives.
We gotta shut the crate!
Come on!
Okay.
Let's take
the front hall carpet.
This can't be
the front hall.
This is what happens
when you mix
your world and my world.
Oh. and when you
eat bad shellfish.
Let's go. Oh. yeah!
CONRAD: Cat. how
do we find the crate?
Beats me.
This hat is worthless.
and it makes me look fat.
Where's Mrs. Kwan?
Here she comes.
right on schedule.
Oh. yeah!
We're going to
ride Mrs. Kwan?
Sure! It's the only
way to the crate. Hop on.
This is gonna be good.
Please keep
your hands and feet
in the Kwan at all times.
Enjoy the ride!
Ladies and gentlemen.
the dining room.
This is the dining room?
Hey. look. Chandelier.
CONRAD: Is that the bathroom?
You might want to
hold it for a while.
Something like that
really burns my...
This is amazing!
It's like a ride at
an amusement park!
You mean.
like at Universal Studios.
Cha-ching.
(ALL SCREAMING)
(SPUTTERING)
Please exit
the Kwan to your left.
Have a nice day!
JOAN: This is ridiculous.
I have to get home.
Police brutality.
Illegal choke hold.
Where are we?
The living room. I think.
Ah. man.
My eyes are closed.
If there's no line. could we
go back and do that again?
There's the crate!
If we shut the crate.
the house will
go back to normal.
You have the lock?
Got it. Come on. let's go.
Sally!
(CONRAD GRUNTING)
Come on!
It won't shut!
Sally! Everything is
disappearing up there!
Help!
Sally!
Oh! Oh!
Sal...
Help me. Conrad!
Sally!
Help me! I can't hold on!
Hang on!
Help me. Conrad!
Help!
Sally.
I can't reach the lock!
No!
I can't save you
unless you let go!
Okay.
Help me!
CONRAD: Yes.
(QUINN SCREAMING)
I did it. I did it.
I did it. I did it. I did it.
Okay. "we" did it.
I don't think
we did anything.
The place is still a wreck.
You said
if we shut the crate.
everything would be okay!
But it's not.
It's a complete disaster.
Well. what are you gonna do?
Tennis. anyone?
(EXCLAIMS)
Love that new ball smell.
Yeah.
Hey. your hat.
it's magic again?
Oops.
Well. now that
the cat's out of the bag.
to use an archaic
and cruel-sounding metaphor.
why don't you serve first?
You had your real
hat this whole time?
Yup. I planned
the whole day.
What do you mean.
you planned the whole day?
All of it?
Yup.
The house getting trashed?
Quinn taking Nevins?
Yup.
Cutting off your tail?
Nope. No.
(CRASHING)
You even knew
I'd open the crate?
Why do you think
I made it my one rule?
I knew you couldn't resist.
Now. who's up for a game
of Canadian doubles?
(GLASS SHATTERING)
Cat. you said
nothing bad would happen.
Cat. you need to get out.
I don't know that game.
It's not a game.
None of this is a game!
But I thought
you two wanted
to have fun today.
Look around. Cat.
You were right.
It's fun to have fun.
but you have to know how.
You don't know
when enough is enough.
Now. go!
Suzy.
Cromwell.
Please.
Out!
Good riddance.
Now. this may not be the time
for "I told you so." but...
Like I said.
not the time.
I'll get the mop
and bucket.
Conrad. you might
want to get out of here
until Mom has
a chance to calm down.
No.
This was my fault.
I'll take the blame.
Look.
Mom will be home any second.
Why don't you go upstairs?
I'm not going upstairs.
I'm staying with you.
Really? Why?
Two reasons.
One.
the stairs are destroyed.
Two. this is just as
much my fault as yours.
We should
share the blame.
Thanks. Sally.
By the way.
you're a pretty good brother.
Glad you think that.
Maybe we can
room together
at military school.
Well. here goes.
Bet you thought I'd gone
Bet you felt a sting
Bet you never thought
I'd have another song to sing
But now that
you've learned your lesson
Allow me to blow your mind
By reading to
you the small print
of the contract
that you signed
Okay. section eight.
article 93. subparagraph 834.
Right by the chili stain.
It reads. "If Conrad.
a.k.a. Concrete.
should open the crate."
and we know he will.
"the contract shall
be null and void.
"However.
"if Sally and Conrad
should learn
from their mistakes.
"the contract
shall be reinstated."
And I think
you two have satisfied
the legal burden of learning.
Yeah!
So there's just
one last game to play.
It's called
"Clean Up the House."
Kids.
meet the Dynamic Industrial
Renovating Tractormajigger.
D-l-R-T?
That's right!
It's getting
better all the time
I used to get
mad at my school
The teachers who
taught me weren't cool
You're holding me down
Turning me 'round
Filling me up with your rules
I've got to admit
it's getting better
Better
A little better all the time
It can't get no worse
I have to admit
it's getting better
Better
A little better
since you've been mine
Me used to be
an angry young man
Me hiding my head in the sand
You gave me the word
I finally heard
I'm doing
the best that I can. yeah
I've got to admit
it's getting better
Better
A little better all the time
Can't get no worse
I have to admit
it's getting better
Better
It's getting better
Since you've been mine
Oh. yeah!
Getting so much better
These drapes are
so out. they're in!
All the time
It's getting
better all the time
Better. better. better
Spin! Spin!
It's getting
better all the time
Better. better. better
I have to admit
it's getting better
A little better all the time
It can't get no worse
Yes.
I admit it's getting better
It's getting better
Bye.
Since you've been mine
Getting so much
better all the time
Okay. we had some good times.
We cleaned up the house.
We even managed to work in
an up-tempo pop tune
for the soundtrack.
That's important.
I guess there's just
one last thing to check.
Looks like
everything's in balance.
but you're still smoking
way too many cigars.
And you. lay off the sauce.
Cat. this day
has been amazing.
Thank you. Cat.
For everything.
Conrad?
Sally?
Adieu.
SALLY: Cat!
CONRAD: Cat!
Wait. Cat.
Don't go.
JOAN: All right. kids.
This place
better not be a mess.
I'm home.
Hi. Mom.
Miss Walden. home so soon?
The children were angels.
Thanks. Mrs. Kwan.
Hello. Joan.
Lawrence.
what happened to you?
They happened to me.
Your demonic children.
They destroyed your house!
The house was alive.
The wall was made of paper.
I fell off the cliff.
And the giant cat...
The giant cat!
Tell her.
Larry. Larry.
You look terrible.
and my mom
thinks you're insane.
This is what we in sales
call "a win-win scenario."
Joan. you are passing up
the opportunity
of a lifetime.
You know what kind
of kid your boy is.
I mean.
who are you
going to believe?
You're right. I do know
what kind of kid Conrad is.
He can be irresponsible.
Yes.
He makes bad choices.
Sometimes he makes me
want to tear my hair out.
Yes. Yes. Yes.
But he's a good kid.
and I believe in him.
Now. I'd like you to leave.
Wha... Joan. Joan.
Joan. Joan.
Oh. Joan. Joan. Joan.
(SNEEZES)
Will you marry me. Joan?
Oh. Joan. Joan. Joan. Joan.
(QUINN SOBBING)
Yes!
Yeah!
CONRAD: Yeah!
Oh. that's nice.
(SNORING)
MAN: Mr. Humberfloob?
(EXCLAIMING)
Almost got me again.
Enjoy the party.
JOAN: Mr. Humberfloob.
Joan. the party's a hit
and the house is immaculate.
Congratulations.
WOMAN:
Miss Walden. Miss Walden.
Chicka-ow.
chicka-ow. chica-yee-haw!
Hi. Mom.
Honey.
your cupcakes
are a huge hit.
What did you
put in them?
Mom. you can make
cupcakes out of anything.
Are you telling me
you can make cupcakes
out of anything?
Anything.
Anything?
So what did you
kids do today. huh?
NARRATOR:
Well. what would you do
if your mother asked you?
The family was whole.
all thanks to the Cat.
who was
dashing and charming.
no doubt about that.
He was witty and cultured
and. well. very endearing
and tremendously attractive.
but in a sort of real way.
You know.
kind of an approachable way
that I think
you don't see these days...
Hello! I was just...
I really should be going.
How'd they get so smart?
Oh. yeah!
(CAT LAUGHING)
Come on. Things!
Let's go!
What's on my
schedule for tomorrow?
What do you say
we go on vacation?
How about Hawaii?
I like Hawaii.
I should warn you.
there are certain places
that don't allow
certain Things.
Oh. Things are complicated.
Things are getting weird
Things are getting tough
Nothing's making sense
but you keep on looking up
They tell you to be true
You're trying every day
To keep it on the real
Still you gotta find a way
To make your mama happy
To make your papa proud
You wanna turn it up
but all you hear
is "tone it down"
So gather 'round.
I'm here to say
You'll never
make everybody's day
But while you're around
you might as well
Catch the tiger by its tail
And hang on. hang on. hang on
Everybody just get on.
get on. get on
Get started and
go on. go on. go on
Everybody just hold on
Sometimes I wanna cry
or throw the towel in
They try to bring me down
but I'll take it on the chin
And everywhere I go
the people are the same
They just want to know
that everything will be okay
When things are getting rough
you turn it back around
You gotta turn it up
when they tell
you "tone it down"
So gather 'round.
I'm here to say
You'll never
make everybody's day
But while you're around
you might as well
Catch the tiger by its tail
And hang on. hang on. hang on
Everybody just get on.
get on. get on
Get started and
go on. go on. go on
Everybody just hold on
Just hang on
So gather 'round.
I'm here to say
You'll never
make everybody's day
But while you're around
you might as well
Catch the tiger by its tail
And hang on. hang on. hang on
Everybody just get on.
get on. get on
Get started and
go on. go on. go on
Everybody just hold on
Hang on. hang on. hang on
Everybody just get on.
get on. get on
Get started and
go on. go on. go on
Everybody just hold on
Just hang on